When you're looking in the mirror late at night, saying
to yourself "I need customers," what do you do?
First of all, are you sure you don't mean
love when you say customers?
And second of all, I feel you. For a lot of first time
business owners, this can be a little overwhelming.
You don't know what your options are,
you don't know what other people do, and you don't
know what the hell a content marketing strategy is.
This befuddlement - real word - is one of the biggest
reason businesses and new products flop, and the owner
just doesn't know what to do and ends up dabbling
in several things while being effective at none of them.
It's kind of like your dad trying
to help you with all of your homework.
Well, let me unburden you somewhat, because, believe
it or not, all businesses on this green - soon to be
brown - planet acquire their customers
through one of 19 different ways.
Yes.
I'm not joking.
You can actually reduce every single marketing strategy
out there to 19 categories. Each magical category
designed to make you grow like a Shrinky Dink
is called a traction channel.
Now, why do we use the word "traction"?
Well, you can guess what the number one thing that's
going to determine whether you sink or swim is. It's
not how many VC pitches you give,
or what your diversity profile looks like.
Sadly, most tech companies would disagree
with the former and agree with the latter.
It is whether or not you get traction - traction just meaning
you receive positive outcomes based on your effort.
What you're doing is resonating with your customers,
and your business is progressing as a result.
Those that don't have any traction
with marketing just lose money,
they never make sales and they never grow their business.
The second part of the phrase, "channel," is just marketing
lingo for a general area that you can promote
your business through.
It's also sometimes referred to as a
distribution channel or marketing channel,
but we say traction channel just simply because
it's more accurately what we care about.
Also, we in the marketing community are heavily
invested in using as many buzzwords as we can,
if you haven't noticed. Traction is a synergistic value
add for disrupting vertical platforms that will
make you an autonomous thought leader.
Big Data, inflection point, ship it, get out the door.
Now, we don't want to master distribution.
That doesn't mean people will buy your stuff, and
we don't just want to try marketing. At the end of the
day, what we want is traction, a set of practices and
activities that consistently bring in customers or leads.
Are you still with me?
Hopefully you did not get lost in that sea of lingo.
Traction channels are just the buckets or categories
of promotional techniques you can use.
That is it.
OK.
Like I said before, there are 19 of them.
Can you guess one? Just ask, how do
these companies get customers
and what's an example that comes to mind?
It's probably one of the 19.
So to spare your ears from hearing me talk too much,
I'm just going to list off the 19 channels, and then
in the next lecture I'm going to go over briefly
the 10 that we cover in this course, and then we'll link
you to where you can learn about the other weirder
ones. And to make this entertaining,
I'm going to list them off from memory, and if I get them
wrong, I'm going to shock myself with this Shocky Pen.
All right, here it goes.
SEO, SEM, content marketing, viral marketing, social
media advertising, display advertising, speaking
engagements, targeting blogs, PR, video marketing.
Oh there's some other ones and... And now that my hand
is no longer numb, it's SEO, SEM, content marketing,
PR, viral marketing, unconventional PR,
speaking engagements, offline advertisement,
that's what it was,
social & display advertising, email marketing, trade shows,
existing platforms, affiliate programs, sales business
development, engineering as marketing, and targeting blogs.
Oh also and community building.
I was not even close.
All right.
Ready to recap.
When you want to grow your business,
you have 19 options to do just that.
You are now liberated from the world of unlimited possibilities.
You are welcome.
Also, I just listed off the 19 ways,
and whoever made this pen belongs in jail.